Hi, everyone.
In this election, we are going to create the cell constructor.
All right, before actually jumping there, what I'm going to do is I'm going to populate, I'm going
to say palm plating the grid.
Let's go ahead and let's populate that.
So what is the grid?
The grid is that entire thing that we that we see there.
Right.
So let's go ahead and let's populate that as well.
All right.
So in here, let's loop over all of the grid rows and great columns and then populate that empty grid
array with all the rows and columns that we loop over.
All right.
So what do we have here is we are going to sell it equal to zero.
We want to start from zero.
The I should go all the way to list and grid rows.
So the first thing that we are going to populate that empty array is with the grid rows.
So I'm going to grab that grid array and the first item that I want to pass and going to be the eye.
So the eye is going to be equal to an empty array.
So now the eye has has gone into that.
Right.
And now let's go ahead and let's grab all of the columns as well.
So I'm just going to call that.
You could call it anything you want, of course.
And we are going to say it should go all the way to less than the grid columns.
And we are going to increment by one each time.
And let's go ahead and let's create a left variable.
And we are going to say the left is going to be the margin X because we are talking about the landscape
mode in this case, plus the GAO, which is going to be the column that we have times, the cell that
we have there as well.
So the GAO is going to be each column that we have and in each column we are going to have, for example,
it is if it is column one, we are going to have sex cells in that.
So it is going to be cell one that's going to be one multiplied by two, multiplied by cell.
And we are going to give give it that margin as well.
So this is going to generate for a six cells there.
Let's go ahead and generate cells for the top.
For the top as well and for the top, you're going to grab the margin, why?
And I'm going to say plus I write.
So because this Jay is going to create for us columns.
But this but this is going to create for us rows and I'm going to multiply it by the cell size as well.
Now, let's grab our empty grid and they're going to pass and I as the grid rose and I'm going to pass
and just as the grid columns and now here is where I'm going to call in our new cell class, which we
have not yet created, but we are going to create it.
So I'm going to pass in the left.
That's capitalized that I'm going to pass and left and I'm going to pass it right as arguments.
Now, Write-up.
And I'm going to pass on the cell, so the Highton with the Highton with are going to be the and width
of the cell and the arrow is going to be the eye and the column is going to be teacher.
So let's save it.
And I'm going to come on top of this on top of the game loop.
And in here I'm going to create the cell class.
All right, so let's go ahead and let's create that as well, so let's say class cell, keep in mind
it should be capital, the first letter and you're going to create a constructor here.
So now we have passed in six arguments for each of the arguments.
We are going to need six parameters.
So the first one was what was it?
So the first one was the left, then top.
So we need to call those as well.
So for the left, you are going to pass and left.
For the top, you are going to pass and top this is going to be with this is going to be the height.
This is going to be the row and this is going to be the call.
So we are going to say this dot left.
What is this so this the left is going to be called to left, right?
What is going to be the right?
What do you think is going to be the right?
So let's create that.
As well, so we always know that whenever we are moving to any side that from left to right or right
to left, it's there with that we are actually dealing with.
So I'm just going to pass and let's create this top is going to be going to top this start bottom is
going to be equal to top in this case.
It's not going to be with but height.
Let's create the with the start with is going to be equal to with this height is going to be equal to
height, right.
And now let's create the rows of this row.
This row is going to be equal to Roe and the START column is going to be equal to column for that there.
And now I want to create a centers for our circles as well.
For example, the center in the direction, the center for the Y Direction.
So I'm just going to say let center X be equal to because it's that center point around which that circle
is being drawn.
So the center for the along the direction is going to be left, plus the width divided by two because
we need to get the radius if we just left plus with it is going to give us the diameter, but we need
to divide it by two so we get the width.
So sorry, we get the radius.
So this is going to be Htar Plus.
And this is going to be center why let's grab the let's create that the radius as well.
This is going to be the center point.
That's why we have divided it by two, because the radius is going to go inside the center point.
So this study is going to be a radius and we are going to grab our width, multiply it by grid circle.
What is the grid circle?
The grid circle is actually a fraction of the cell size, right.
And let's divide it by two again, because we need to get the radius and let's create the highlight
as well.
I'm just going to create it.
Well, we should create it later, but I'm just going to create it now so I don't have to come back
to it.
So high light.
This should be highlight, I always misspell this one.
And equal to highlight, perfect, and let's create the cell owner as well, who who's who's ever or
whomsoever has to play the game is the owner of the cell.
So, for example, if I come here, you can see now I am the owner of the if I click now, computer
is the owner and now I am the owner.
So it depends.
Is this going to switch?
And I'm just going to put it to for now because but OK, this is not as well because by default we do
not want to highlight anything until we find out whose turn it is or who is the owner of that.
OK, let's move on.
What I'm going to do here is I'm going to draw the circle as well, so I'm going to say the draw circle
function.
Where is the sea?
There we go, there is the sea.
Say, draw and.
I'm going to pass in the canvass context canvass.
Canvas, canvas, context as a parameter and in here, first off, let's create the owner color, so
let color be equal to now in here.
But I'm going to do is something that we have never done in discourse before.
I'm going to change ternary operators.
So if it is null, if null is true, then it means that we just want to show the color of the background.
So I'm just going to tell you so you can see that if it is null, we show the color of the background
and then we need to find out the owner.
If the owner is true, we either show the color for the R.I in this case or we show the color for the
air.
That's how we change.
So if null is true, we show the background color.
And if this dot owner is true, what do we show.
We show the color for the r.i.
Or the color for the air, color for the ivory.
There we go, there is the air.
Now, let's go ahead and let's draw the circle.
So we are going to say drawing the circle right now before drawing actually the circle.
What I need to do, we if I remember correctly, we drew the background, but we didn't call that function.
So what I'm going to do is I'm just going to go to my game loop.
I just want to draw that so you can really see that background.
And in here, I'm just going to write draw functions.
You're are going to get to that in just a sec and just going to call the drawback, right?
And there is another function that is going to be drug grade, which we are going to create as well.
And I'm just going to put these here.
Right.
So if I come here and with is not the detach 107, let's go to one hundred and seven.
The this is the width is not defined.
We have not provided it the width.
OK, so so what I'm going to do is I'm going to create some game variables as well.
So below this cell class.
I'm going to write game variables, right, and OK, so what is the first variable I'm going to call
it game over.
We have not created we have not declared it yet, but we are going to do that.
And then the next one is going to be game tied.
Whenever the game is tied, then we are going to have our grid, which are which we are going to initialize
to an empty array.
And then right after that, we are going to have our players turn whichever players turn Daris.
And then we are going to specify a time for the ehi, the time that the A.I. is going to take in order
to make its move.
I'm going to call the canvas dimensions as well in here.
So I'm going to say canvas dimensions.
Dimension's.
So let's grab the now here is where I'm going to define the width and then the height and then the margin,
I know we did not define the margin.
So this is where I'm going to define them.
And this should be a common.
All right, so there we go with that and also let's call Andy said dimension's, it's called Let's save
it now.
Drug trade is not defined.
We are going to define that and are right.
There we go.
So we see a black screen, which we should not see.
Let's go ahead and let's try to complete this.
Hopefully, we should get rid of that.
This is not yet defined.
That's why the error happened.
So whenever I draw that function, then we are going to call it so let's do that.
And we see a black you should not see that.
It's the background S9 nine color B.G..
Let's come down here.
We have our set dimensions function there.
All right, so for now, I'm just going to ignore that black background and we are going to because
there is a lot of things that we have not completed yet.
We need to draw the we need to we need our draw function to draw the circle and we need to grab the
canvas context, context.
And I'm going to say that Phil style.
We are going to set it to the caller, which where is it?
Which, yeah, there it is, it is going to specify one of the colors for us.
I'm going to come down and let's go ahead and let's begin the path, so begin path.
And.
Right after that, let's grab Warraq method arc.
So what is going to be the with we I told you guys that the width is going to be the center that we
have provided.
We want it to start at that specific center.
So we are going to say center X first and then center Y.
The radius is going to be that this hour that we have specified up there, the starting angle is going
to be zero.
The ending angle is going to be math that PI times two.
And let's grab the the film method, not the stroke.
All right.
Let's save it.
And right after that, what I want to do is I want to draw the highlighting as well.
So in here, I'm just going to say draw highlighting.
And for this, we need a condition because whenever it is the users turn or the eyes turn, we want
a different color for the highlighting.
Whenever it is the computer's turn, we want a different color for the highlighting for the user.
We want that orange that you saw for the computer.
We want that green which you saw as well.
So we are going to say if this first off, we need to check if there is any place for us to provide
our highlight.
So we are going to say if this does highlight is not equal to no, it means that there is actually some
place for us to provide our highlight.
If if that column is full of the column is full, we are not going to provide any highlight, for example,
like this.
The computer is going to win there and you can see that in this column, we can no longer have any highlights.
So first off, we need to check if it is if it isn't and know.
Right.
And then let's go ahead and let's grab the color.
So we are going to say color should be equal to now.
Here is where we're going to define the highlight color.
So this start highlight.
If this not highlight, it's true.
We are going to grab the color for the r.i so color for the r.i.
Otherwise if this that highlight is not true we are going to grab the color for the eye color and score.
So let's grab that as well.
Now let's actually draw that highlight that we have.
So I'm going to say draw a circle around the perimeter perimeter that's around the perimeter.
Right.
Perimeter, perimeter.
All right, so let's grab our canvasses context line with because this is going to have a width, it's
not a complete circle.
It's just like a stroke of a circle.
Right.
So the line with what is the width of that stroke?
The width of that stroke is going to be one fourth of the radius of the circle.
What do I mean by this so you can see that the this circle that is being highlighted here, this is
what what we are actually creating right now and let's grab the canvas is context.
Let's say stroke, because we are creating stroke.
We are going to say stroke style equal to the color, whichever color it might be, it might be the
color are already color A.I. Let's begin our path and are right.
So it is going to be exactly like this.
I'm just going to copy that and I'm going to put it right here.
So we have begun our path.
It's going to have a center X, it is going to have a center wide radius and also that and finally,
instead of saying canvas context fell, we are going to say stroke.
Perfect.
Let's do that and finally, the in here after the game variables, what I want to do is I want to create
an event.
And that is going to be window resized, so window.
Resize event listener, this is the event that we are going to listen for whenever the user resize is
the window, a.k.a. for responsiveness.
So first off, I'm going to grab the window and I'm going to add a listener.
We have not talked about this event, but it is going to be the resize event.
And whenever the user realizes we are going to call the set dimensions function.
Right.
So I'm just going to go ahead and I'm going to cut that and I'm going to put it underneath the dimensions.
These are going to be our game variables, all of this.
All right, on top of that, I'm going to grab our canvas element and I'm going to add an event listener
to that as well whenever any whenever the user mouse is over, any of the any part of the canvas, we
need to highlight that grid that we have.
So I'm just going to person mouse move and then we are going to create a function for highlighting the
grid.
Perfect.
All right, I hope you're not getting confused, I'm sure you're not.
This is very, very simple.
So before actually creating this highlight grid function, you remember that I passed in here a draw
a grid function there.
And what I'm going to do here is I'm just going to go ahead and I'm going to draw that grid that we
have.
I'm going to go underneath this.
Where is our drawback, Grant?
We call the drawback ground there and in here.
I'm just going to I'm going to call the one to create the draw grid function.
Let's let's draw the grid as well.
So first off, what we need to draw is going to be the frame and the bottom of the frame, and then
we are going to draw ourselves.
So we are going to say function.
Function, draw.
Drug gret, let me come and this, yeah, it is coming, and so we are going to draw that perfect.
So first off, the frame, which is going to contain all of this, all the circles and the bottom of
the frame, perfect.
Let's say, what is the cell?
The cell is going to be each of the cells that we want to draw.
They're going to have a a row of zero and they're going to have a column of zero.
Then we are going to we need to grab the frame height h e t.
So we need to specify that as well.
So these cells, these cells hide these cells hide times.
The red rose is going to be the frame height.
So as many rows as we have that is going to specify the grid height.
So the frame height then we have our frame with.
The frame with is going to be the width of the cells divided by the number of columns that we have.
So the number of columns right after that, I'm going to call our canvas context and I'm going to say
Phil style.
And we are going to we are going to grab the color of the frame, so the color of the frame and I'm
going to say canvas context, but let's fill that as well.
Fill in RACT.
And what is the exposition, the exposition is going to be the left side of the cell.
What is the Y position?
Cells top is going to be the Y position.
What is the with the width is going to be the frame with what is the height?
The fight is going to be the frame height.
And let's grab the canvas context one more time and let's say, OK, fair style.
Now we have specified our we have created the frame.
Now what I'm going to do is I'm going to create that bottom part, that bottom rectangle that you see
as well.
So I'm going to say frame, color, frame, bottom, pretty descriptive name.
And let's grab the canvas, fill rect.
All right, so what is the with the with is going to be the left side of the cells minus both sides
of the margin, that is going to be the width of that that that we have.
Right.
So the cells left side.
Or the left sells minus the margins on both of the sides.
I'm going to say margin times two, that is going to be the exposition sorry, this is going to be the
exposition, not the with what is going to be the Y position.
The Y position is always going to be at the bottom of the frame.
Right.
So this very far point, this is the Y position.
So let's draw that as well.
So Saldate top plus the frames hide the frames.
Height is going to give us the final point for that frame.
And we need to always subtract the margin on the both sides.
So we are going to say margin margin times two.
But because we are actually going down, I'm just going to go ahead and multi-device, divided by two.
We need to subtract it by the margin.
Times to.
Perfect.
So this is going to be the X and the Y values for that, the X and Y locations.
Now let's grab the with the with is going to be the frame with plus the margin.
All right, and the height is just going to be the margin size itself.
Now, whenever we draw that, you're going to see that the margin height as well.
And finally, we are going to say canvas context.
Dot fell.
All right, and now that is created, let's create ourselves as well.
I'm just going to create that and we are going to grab the rest of the game in the next lecture.
So here I'm going to I'm going to call and we're going to use a four of loop.
I'm not sure if we have covered that.
We have covered a ton inside this course.
But what it is, what it is going to do is it is going to have a loop variable, which in this case
is row, and it is going to loop over a loop array, which is great.
So we want our road to loop over the grid itself and then we want our cell to.
To look over all the rows, so we are going to say for let's row off grid, this is the loop variable,
which is going to loop over this array.
This is the loop variable.
We know that all of our rows and columns, they are going to be inside an array.
So this is going to be one array.
We have specified it right there and the other one is going to be another.
That's why we are looping over that.
And then we are going to call in called a draw function or a drum method.
Right.
And this is just going to grab any canvas, the canvas context.
So let's save it.
All right.
So I think we are done here.
We have drawn the grid.
We have drawn the French top and bottom location.
We have drawn ourselves.
Now we should see something on the screen.
There we go.
So if I refresh the page, there is something wrong, because I know that the frame is is fine.
We have all our cells are our grid.
So we have one, two, three, four, five, six, seven.
We don't see any highlighting because we have not drawn the highlighting.
But this color of the background, that is sort of messed up.
So let's set dimensions.
Where did we define the background?
So this is where we said draw the background.
The color should be the color.
Viji It's not taking this color for some reason.
So let me just specified as red.
Let's see if it grabs that.
No, it is not driving.
This color should grab this color.
Color Biji, so let me take a look at it.
We have our grid there.
We have created all the grid, the rows and we have put everything inside that grid array.
We have created the grid right there, create grid and.
Called it there we have our drug background, we have called it right here, so it is constantly drawing
the background that we have.
I'm not sure what's wrong here.
We should see that color, not this color.
All right, so the only thing left here that I want to do is I just want to fix this issue so you can
see that the color of the carpet for our frame and bottom, this color and the bottom color, I hope
they are the same.
I think they're the same.
They are what we what we want them to be, they are the color of the frame and the color of the bottom
and this color, this is the drug background.
So that's this function.
We have canvas, that style color, big canvas, fellin ract.
And this is somehow not so.
Oh, there we go.
There is a team missing there.
So if I save it, we can see that the color is back to what it should be.
But now there is a problem that the color of these circles is not.
And you can see the bottom is perfect.
The color of these circles is not.
It should be white if the if the circles they do not have any owner there.
Color should be the color of the background.
Where have we specified the color of the circles.
We have specified it drawing the circle right here.
So we have said the first.
There we go.
We see a team missing there as well.
So if I say it and now we can see it gives us the green, it shouldn't give us the long green because
now it means that the owner is actually the A.I. It's not the r.i.
It shouldn't be anyone unless someone has selected it.
So we say that color if color.
This is not correct if this dog owner.
Let me clear that so if this dog owner equals normal, then we want the color to be color, color of
the background.
Otherwise, if this stud owner is true, I mean, if it is not, then we we want that color.
If it is true, this dog owner, it means that there is an owner.
We either want the color of the RIAA or the color of the EHI that this entire thing is going to be equal
to the color.
So if I say it.
There we go.
So this is our frame.
This is the bottom of the frame that we have, because these frames, they don't have any specific owner
or their color is the color of the background.
Right.
And the next thing that we would do, the next logical thing that we would do is we are going to grab
the highlight.
Great.
And we are going to create that.
And from the highlight, great, we are going to create the highlight sell so we can actually highlight
the cells that we have on him, which we are going to complete in our next lecture.
See you guys then.